---
title: Optee
sidebar_position: 62
---

__OP-TEE__ is a Trusted Execution Environment that implements the GlobalPlatform
TEE [specification](https://globalplatform.org/specs-library/tee-internal-core-api-specification/). 
This implementation relies on the Arm [TrustZone](https://developer.arm.com/ip-products/security-ip/trustzone) as the hardware mechanism that isolates a 
secure environment from the normal world. This isolation comes with different features at the CPU
level, like:

- Secure interrupts
- Virtual memory MMU with secure attributes
- Secure code, data and memory
- Trusted boot
- Secure threads
- Trusted File System

These features are not accessibled, modifiable or seen from the normal world where the Operating system is running.

Optee comes with two important APIs, as follow:

- __TEE__(Trusted execution environment) whose API is used to *interact* with the secure
  world in a controlled manner. This API is used by
  user code(Trusted Application or better known as TA) that runs "inside" the TrustZone. The TA has the following characteristics:
    - It is identified by an UUID
    - It is isolated from the OS and has access to certain peripherals that the normal OS cannot access (i.e. cryptographic co-processor, etc. )
    - It is limited by memory boundaries and the number of available syscalls. The available syscalls have to go through the secure environment as a result normal 
    syscalls for memory allocation, file systems and non-secure peripherals(including networking) are disabled.

- __REE__ Rich execution environment does not poses any limitation in
  regards to access to networking, memory and peripherals. The API is
  used to create client instances that open the door to the secure world through a sort of channel communication.

Both APIs are defined by the GlobalPlatform TEE specification.

:::note
For more details on how these APIs are used, check our [hello world](../40.Development/41.HelloRustee.md)
program
:::

